<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Pillingshot, Detective</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="pillingshot-detective" epub:type="chapter">


<h2>
      Pillingshot, Detective
    </h2>
<p>
      Life at St. Austin's was rendered somewhat hollow and burdensome for
      Pillingshot by the fact that he fagged for Scott. Not that Scott was the
      Beetle-Browed Bully in any way. Far from it. He showed a kindly interest
      in Pillingshot's welfare, and sometimes even did his Latin verses for him.
      But the noblest natures have flaws, and Scott's was no exception. He was
      by way of being a humorist, and Pillingshot, with his rather serious
      outlook on life, was puzzled and inconvenienced by this.
    </p>
<p>
      It was through this defect in Scott's character that Pillingshot first
      became a detective.
    </p>
<p>
      He was toasting muffins at the study fire one evening, while Scott, seated
      on two chairs and five cushions, read "Sherlock Holmes," when the Prefect
      laid down his book and fixed him with an earnest eye.
    </p>
<p>
      "Do you know, Pillingshot," he said, "you've got a bright, intelligent
      face. I shouldn't wonder if you weren't rather clever. Why do you hide
      your light under a bushel?"
    </p>
<p>
      Pillingshot grunted.
    </p>
<p>
      "We must find some way of advertising you. Why don't you go in for a
      Junior Scholarship?"
    </p>
<p>
      "Too old," said Pillingshot with satisfaction.
    </p>
<p>
      "Senior, then?"
    </p>
<p>
      "Too young."
    </p>
<p>
      "I believe by sitting up all night and swotting——"
    </p>
<p>
      "Here, I say!" said Pillingshot, alarmed.
    </p>
<p>
      "You've got no enterprise," said Scott sadly. "What are those? Muffins?
      Well, well, I suppose I had better try and peck a bit."
    </p>
<p>
      He ate four in rapid succession, and resumed his scrutiny of Pillingshot's
      countenance.
    </p>
<p>
      "The great thing," he said, "is to find out your special line. Till then
      we are working in the dark. Perhaps it's music? Singing? Sing me a bar or
      two."
    </p>
<p>
      Pillingshot wriggled uncomfortably.
    </p>
<p>
      "Left your music at home?" said Scott. "Never mind, then. Perhaps it's all
      for the best. What are those? Still muffins? Hand me another. After all,
      one must keep one's strength up. You can have one if you like."
    </p>
<p>
      Pillingshot's face brightened. He became more affable. He chatted.
    </p>
<p>
      "There's rather a row on downstairs," he said. "In the junior day-room."
    </p>
<p>
      "There always is," said Scott. "If it grows too loud, I shall get in
      amongst them with a swagger-stick. I attribute half my success at bringing
      off late-cuts to the practice I have had in the junior day-room. It keeps
      the wrist supple."
    </p>
<p>
      "I don't mean that sort of row. It's about Evans."
    </p>
<p>
      "What about Evans?"
    </p>
<p>
      "He's lost a sovereign."
    </p>
<p>
      "Silly young ass."
    </p>
<p>
      Pillingshot furtively helped himself to another muffin.
    </p>
<p>
      "He thinks some one's taken it," he said.
    </p>
<p>
      "What! Stolen it?"
    </p>
<p>
      Pillingshot nodded.
    </p>
<p>
      "What makes him think that?"
    </p>
<p>
      "He doesn't see how else it could have gone."
    </p>
<p>
      "Oh, I don't—By Jove!"
    </p>
<p>
      Scott sat up with some excitement.
    </p>
<p>
      "I've got it," he said. "I knew we should hit on it sooner or later.
      Here's a field for your genius. You shall be a detective. Pillingshot, I
      hand this case over to you. I employ you."
    </p>
<p>
      Pillingshot gaped.
    </p>
<p>
      "I feel certain that's your line. I've often noticed you walking over to
      school, looking exactly like a blood-hound. Get to work. As a start you'd
      better fetch Evans up here and question him."
    </p>
<p>
      "But, look here——"
    </p>
<p>
      "Buck up, man, buck up. Don't you know that every moment is precious?"
    </p>
<p>
      Evans, a small, stout youth, was not disposed to be reticent. The gist of
      his rambling statement was as follows. Rich uncle. Impecunious nephew.
      Visit of former to latter. Handsome tip, one sovereign. Impecunious nephew
      pouches sovereign, and it vanishes.
    </p>
<p>
      "And I call it beastly rot," concluded Evans volubly. "And if I could find
      the cad who's pinched it, I'd jolly well——"
    </p>
<p>
      "Less of it," said Scott. "Now, then, Pillingshot, I'll begin this thing,
      just to start you off. What makes you think the quid has been stolen,
      Evans?"
    </p>
<p>
      "Because I jolly well know it has."
    </p>
<p>
      "What you jolly well know isn't evidence. We must thresh this thing out.
      To begin with, where did you last see it?"
    </p>
<p>
      "When I put it in my pocket."
    </p>
<p>
      "Good. Make a note of that, Pillingshot. Where's your notebook? Not got
      one? Here you are then. You can tear out the first few pages, the ones
      I've written on. Ready? Carry on, Evans. When?"
    </p>
<p>
      "When what?"
    </p>
<p>
      "When did you put it in your pocket?"
    </p>
<p>
      "Yesterday afternoon."
    </p>
<p>
      "What time?"
    </p>
<p>
      "About five."
    </p>
<p>
      "Same pair of bags you're wearing now?"
    </p>
<p>
      "No, my cricket bags. I was playing at the nets when my uncle came."
    </p>
<p>
      "Ah! Cricket bags? Put it down, Pillingshot. That's a clue. Work on it.
      Where are they?"
    </p>
<p>
      "They've gone to the wash."
    </p>
<p>
      "About time, too. I noticed them. How do you know the quid didn't go to
      the wash as well?"
    </p>
<p>
      "I turned both the pockets inside out."
    </p>
<p>
      "Any hole in the pocket?"
    </p>
<p>
      "No."
    </p>
<p>
      "Well, when did you take off the bags? Did you sleep in them?"
    </p>
<p>
      "I wore 'em till bed-time, and then shoved them on a chair by the side of
      the bed. It wasn't till next morning that I remembered the quid was in
      them——"
    </p>
<p>
      "But it wasn't," objected Scott.
    </p>
<p>
      "I thought it was. It ought to have been."
    </p>
<p>
      "He thought it was. That's a clue, young Pillingshot. Work on it. Well?"
    </p>
<p>
      "Well, when I went to take the quid out of my cricket bags, it wasn't
      there."
    </p>
<p>
      "What time was that?"
    </p>
<p>
      "Half-past seven this morning."
    </p>
<p>
      "What time did you go to bed?"
    </p>
<p>
      "Ten."
    </p>
<p>
      "Then the theft occurred between the hours of ten and seven-thirty. Mind
      you, I'm giving you a jolly good leg-up, young Pillingshot. But as it's
      your first case I don't mind. That'll be all from you, Evans. Pop off."
    </p>
<p>
      Evans disappeared. Scott turned to the detective.
    </p>
<p>
      "Well, young Pillingshot," he said, "what do you make of it?"
    </p>
<p>
      "I don't know."
    </p>
<p>
      "What steps do you propose to take?"
    </p>
<p>
      "I don't know."
    </p>
<p>
      "You're a lot of use, aren't you? As a start, you'd better examine the
      scene of the robbery, I should say."
    </p>
<p>
      Pillingshot reluctantly left the room.
    </p>
<p>
      "Well?" said Scott, when he returned. "Any clues?"
    </p>
<p>
      "No."
    </p>
<p>
      "You thoroughly examined the scene of the robbery?"
    </p>
<p>
      "I looked under the bed."
    </p>
<p>
      "<i>Under</i> the bed? What's the good of that? Did you go over every inch
      of the strip of carpet leading to the chair with a magnifying-glass?"
    </p>
<p>
      "Hadn't got a magnifying-glass."
    </p>
<p>
      "Then you'd better buck up and get one, if you're going to be a detective.
      Do you think Sherlock Holmes ever moved a step without his? Not much.
      Well, anyhow. Did you find any foot-prints or tobacco-ash?"
    </p>
<p>
      "There was a jolly lot of dust about."
    </p>
<p>
      "Did you preserve a sample?"
    </p>
<p>
      "No."
    </p>
<p>
      "My word, you've a lot to learn. Now, weighing the evidence, does anything
      strike you?"
    </p>
<p>
      "No."
    </p>
<p>
      "You're a bright sort of sleuth-hound, aren't you! It seems to me I'm
      doing all the work on this case. I'll have to give you another leg-up.
      Considering the time when the quid disappeared, I should say that somebody
      in the dormitory must have collared it. How many fellows are there in
      Evans' dormitory?"
    </p>
<p>
      "I don't know."
    </p>
<p>
      "Cut along and find out."
    </p>
<p>
      The detective reluctantly trudged off once more.
    </p>
<p>
      "Well?" said Scott, on his return.
    </p>
<p>
      "Seven," said Pillingshot. "Counting Evans."
    </p>
<p>
      "We needn't count Evans. If he's ass enough to steal his own quids, he
      deserves to lose them. Who are the other six?"
    </p>
<p>
      "There's Trent. He's prefect."
    </p>
<p>
      "The Napoleon of Crime. Watch his every move. Yes?"
    </p>
<p>
      "Simms."
    </p>
<p>
      "A dangerous man. Sinister to the core."
    </p>
<p>
      "And Green, Berkeley, Hanson, and Daubeny."
    </p>
<p>
      "Every one of them well known to the police. Why, the place is a perfect
      Thieves' Kitchen. Look here, we must act swiftly, young Pillingshot. This
      is a black business. We'll take them in alphabetical order. Run and fetch
      Berkeley."
    </p>
<p>
      Berkeley, interrupted in a game of Halma, came unwillingly.
    </p>
<p>
      "Now then, Pillingshot, put your questions," said Scott. "This is a black
      business, Berkeley. Young Evans has lost a sovereign——"
    </p>
<p>
      "If you think I've taken his beastly quid——!" said Berkeley
      warmly.
    </p>
<p>
      "Make a note that, on being questioned, the man Berkeley exhibited
      suspicious emotion. Go on. Jam it down."
    </p>
<p>
      Pillingshot reluctantly entered the statement under Berkeley's indignant
      gaze.
    </p>
<p>
      "Now then, carry on."
    </p>
<p>
      "You know, it's all rot," protested Pillingshot. "I never said Berkeley
      had anything to do with it."
    </p>
<p>
      "Never mind. Ask him what his movements were on the night of the—what
      was yesterday?—on the night of the sixteenth of July."
    </p>
<p>
      Pillingshot put the question nervously.
    </p>
<p>
      "I was in bed, of course, you silly ass."
    </p>
<p>
      "Were you asleep?" inquired Scott.
    </p>
<p>
      "Of course I was."
    </p>
<p>
      "Then how do you know what you were doing? Pillingshot, make a note of the
      fact that the man Berkeley's statement was confused and contradictory.
      It's a clue. Work on it. Who's next? Daubeny. Berkeley, send Daubeny up
      here."
    </p>
<p>
      "All right, Pillingshot, you wait," was Berkeley's exit speech.
    </p>
<p>
      Daubeny, when examined, exhibited the same suspicious emotion that
      Berkeley had shown; and Hanson, Simms, and Green behaved in a precisely
      similar manner.
    </p>
<p>
      "This," said Scott, "somewhat complicates the case. We must have further
      clues. You'd better pop off now, Pillingshot. I've got a Latin Prose to
      do. Bring me reports of your progress daily, and don't overlook the
      importance of trifles. Why, in 'Silver Blaze' it was a burnt match that
      first put Holmes on the scent."
    </p>
<p>
      Entering the junior day-room with some apprehension, the sleuth-hound
      found an excited gathering of suspects waiting to interview him.
    </p>
<p>
      One sentiment animated the meeting. Each of the five wanted to know what
      Pillingshot meant by it.
    </p>
<p>
      "What's the row?" queried interested spectators, rallying round.
    </p>
<p>
      "That cad Pillingshot's been accusing us of bagging Evans' quid."
    </p>
<p>
      "What's Scott got to do with it?" inquired one of the spectators.
    </p>
<p>
      Pillingshot explained his position.
    </p>
<p>
      "All the same," said Daubeny, "you needn't have dragged us into it."
    </p>
<p>
      "I couldn't help it. He made me."
    </p>
<p>
      "Awful ass, Scott," admitted Green.
    </p>
<p>
      Pillingshot welcomed this sign that the focus of popular indignation was
      being shifted.
    </p>
<p>
      "Shoving himself into other people's business," grumbled Pillingshot.
    </p>
<p>
      "Trying to be funny," Berkeley summed up.
    </p>
<p>
      "Rotten at cricket, too."
    </p>
<p>
      "Can't play a yorker for nuts."
    </p>
<p>
      "See him drop that sitter on Saturday?"
    </p>
<p>
      So that was all right. As far as the junior day-room was concerned,
      Pillingshot felt himself vindicated.
    </p>
<p>
      But his employer was less easily satisfied. Pillingshot had hoped that by
      the next day he would have forgotten the subject. But, when he went into
      the study to get tea ready, up it came again.
    </p>
<p>
      "Any clues yet, Pillingshot?"
    </p>
<p>
      Pillingshot had to admit that there were none.
    </p>
<p>
      "Hullo, this won't do. You must bustle about. You must get your nose to
      the trail. Have you cross-examined Trent yet? No? Well, there you are,
      then. Nip off and do it now."
    </p>
<p>
      "But, I say, Scott! He's a prefect!"
    </p>
<p>
      "In the dictionary of crime," said Scott sententiously, "there is no such
      word as prefect. All are alike. Go and take down Trent's statement."
    </p>
<p>
      To tax a prefect with having stolen a sovereign was a task at which
      Pillingshot's imagination boggled. He went to Trent's study in a sort of
      dream.
    </p>
<p>
      A hoarse roar answered his feeble tap. There was no doubt about Trent
      being in. Inspection revealed the fact that the prefect was working and
      evidently ill-attuned to conversation. He wore a haggard look and his eye,
      as it caught that of the collector of statements, was dangerous.
    </p>
<p>
      "Well?" said Trent, scowling murderously.
    </p>
<p>
      Pillingshot's legs felt perfectly boneless.
    </p>
<p>
      "<i>Well</i>?" said Trent.
    </p>
<p>
      Pillingshot yammered.
    </p>
<p>
      "<i>Well</i>?"
    </p>
<p>
      The roar shook the window, and Pillingshot's presence of mind deserted him
      altogether.
    </p>
<p>
      "Have you bagged a sovereign?" he asked.
    </p>
<p>
      There was an awful silence, during which the detective, his limbs suddenly
      becoming active again, banged the door, and shot off down the passage.
    </p>
<p>
      He re-entered Scott's study at the double.
    </p>
<p>
      "Well?" said Scott. "What did he say?"
    </p>
<p>
      "Nothing."
    </p>
<p>
      "Get out your note-book, and put down, under the heading 'Trent':
      'Suspicious silence.' A very bad lot, Trent. Keep him under constant
      espionage. It's a clue. Work on it."
    </p>
<p>
      Pillingshot made a note of the silence, but later on, when he and the
      prefect met in the dormitory, felt inclined to erase it. For silence was
      the last epithet one would have applied to Trent on that occasion. As he
      crawled painfully into bed Pillingshot became more than ever convinced
      that the path of the amateur detective was a thorny one.
    </p>
<p>
      This conviction deepened next day.
    </p>
<p>
      Scott's help was possibly well meant, but it was certainly inconvenient.
      His theories were of the brilliant, dashing order, and Pillingshot could
      never be certain who and in what rank of life the next suspect would be.
      He spent that afternoon shadowing the Greaser (the combination of boot-boy
      and butler who did the odd jobs about the school house), and in the
      evening seemed likely to be about to move in the very highest circles.
      This was when Scott remarked in a dreamy voice, "You know, I'm told the
      old man has been spending a good lot of money lately...."
    </p>
<p>
      To which the burden of Pillingshot's reply was that he would do anything
      in reason, but he was blowed if he was going to cross-examine the
      head-master.
    </p>
<p>
      "It seems to me," said Scott sadly, "that you don't <i>want</i> to find
      that sovereign. Don't you like Evans, or what is it?"
    </p>
<p>
      It was on the following morning, after breakfast, that the close observer
      might have noticed a change in the detective's demeanour. He no longer
      looked as if he were weighed down by a secret sorrow. His manner was even
      jaunty.
    </p>
<p>
      Scott noticed it.
    </p>
<p>
      "What's up?" he inquired. "Got a clue?"
    </p>
<p>
      Pillingshot nodded.
    </p>
<p>
      "What is it? Let's have a look."
    </p>
<p>
      "Sh—h—h!" said Pillingshot mysteriously.
    </p>
<p>
      Scott's interest was aroused. When his fag was making tea in the
      afternoon, he questioned him again.
    </p>
<p>
      "Out with it," he said. "What's the point of all this silent mystery
      business?"
    </p>
<p>
      "Sherlock Holmes never gave anything away."
    </p>
<p>
      "Out with it."
    </p>
<p>
      "Walls have ears," said Pillingshot.
    </p>
<p>
      "So have you," replied Scott crisply, "and I'll smite them in half a
      second."
    </p>
<p>
      Pillingshot sighed resignedly, and produced an envelope. From this he
      poured some dried mud.
    </p>
<p>
      "Here, steady on with my table-cloth," said Scott. "What's this?"
    </p>
<p>
      "Mud."
    </p>
<p>
      "What about it?"
    </p>
<p>
      "Where do you think it came from?"
    </p>
<p>
      "How should I know? Road, I suppose."
    </p>
<p>
      Pillingshot smiled faintly.
    </p>
<p>
      "Eighteen different kinds of mud about here," he said patronisingly. "This
      is flower-bed mud from the house front-garden."
    </p>
<p>
      "Well? What about it?"
    </p>
<p>
      "Sh—h—h!" said Pillingshot, and glided out of the room.
    </p>
<hr/>
<p>
      "Well?" asked Scott next day. "Clues pouring in all right?"
    </p>
<p>
      "Rather."
    </p>
<p>
      "What? Got another?"
    </p>
<p>
      Pillingshot walked silently to the door and flung it open. He looked up
      and down the passage. Then he closed the door and returned to the table,
      where he took from his waistcoat-pocket a used match.
    </p>
<p>
      Scott turned it over inquiringly.
    </p>
<p>
      "What's the idea of this?"
    </p>
<p>
      "A clue," said Pillingshot. "See anything queer about it? See that rummy
      brown stain on it?"
    </p>
<p>
      "Yes."
    </p>
<p>
      "Blood!" snorted Pillingshot.
    </p>
<p>
      "What's the good of blood? There's been no murder."
    </p>
<p>
      Pillingshot looked serious.
    </p>
<p>
      "I never thought of that."
    </p>
<p>
      "You must think of everything. The worst mistake a detective can make is
      to get switched off on to another track while he's working on a case. This
      match is a clue to something else. You can't work on it."
    </p>
<p>
      "I suppose not," said Pillingshot.
    </p>
<p>
      "Don't be discouraged. You're doing fine."
    </p>
<p>
      "I know," said Pillingshot. "I shall find that quid all right."
    </p>
<p>
      "Nothing like sticking to it."
    </p>
<p>
      Pillingshot shuffled, then rose to a point of order.
    </p>
<p>
      "I've been reading those Sherlock Holmes stories," he said, "and Sherlock
      Holmes always got a fee if he brought a thing off. I think I ought to,
      too."
    </p>
<p>
      "Mercenary young brute."
    </p>
<p>
      "It has been a beastly sweat."
    </p>
<p>
      "Done you good. Supplied you with a serious interest in life. Well, I
      expect Evans will give you something—a jewelled snuff-box or
      something—if you pull the thing off."
    </p>
<p>
      "<i>I</i> don't."
    </p>
<p>
      "Well, he'll buy you a tea or something."
    </p>
<p>
      "He won't. He's not going to break the quid. He's saving up for a camera."
    </p>
<p>
      "Well, what are you going to do about it?"
    </p>
<p>
      Pillingshot kicked the leg of the table.
    </p>
<p>
      "<i>You</i> put me on to the case," he said casually.
    </p>
<p>
      "What! If you think I'm going to squander——"
    </p>
<p>
      "I think you ought to let me off fagging for the rest of the term."
    </p>
<p>
      Scott reflected.
    </p>
<p>
      "There's something in that. All right."
    </p>
<p>
      "Thanks."
    </p>
<p>
      "Don't mention it. You haven't found the quid yet."
    </p>
<p>
      "I know where it is."
    </p>
<p>
      "Where?"
    </p>
<p>
      "Ah!"
    </p>
<p>
      "Fool," said Scott.
    </p>
<hr/>
<p>
      After breakfast next day Scott was seated in his study when Pillingshot
      entered.
    </p>
<p>
      "Here you are," said Pillingshot.
    </p>
<p>
      He unclasped his right hand and exhibited a sovereign. Scott inspected it.
    </p>
<p>
      "Is this the one?" he said.
    </p>
<p>
      "Yes," said Pillingshot.
    </p>
<p>
      "How do you know?"
    </p>
<p>
      "It <i>is</i>. I've sifted all the evidence."
    </p>
<p>
      "Who had bagged it?"
    </p>
<p>
      "I don't want to mention names."
    </p>
<p>
      "Oh, all right. As he didn't spend any of it, it doesn't much matter. Not
      that it's much catch having a thief roaming at large about the house.
      Anyhow, what put you on to him? How did you get on the track? You're a
      jolly smart kid, young Pillingshot. How did you work it?"
    </p>
<p>
      "I have my methods," said Pillingshot with dignity.
    </p>
<p>
      "Buck up. I shall have to be going over to school in a second."
    </p>
<p>
      "I hardly like to tell you."
    </p>
<p>
      "Tell me! Dash it all, I put you on to the case. I'm your employer."
    </p>
<p>
      "You won't touch me up if I tell you?"
    </p>
<p>
      "I will if you don't."
    </p>
<p>
      "But not if I do?"
    </p>
<p>
      "No."
    </p>
<p>
      "And how about the fee?"
    </p>
<p>
      "That's all right. Go on."
    </p>
<p>
      "All right then. Well, I thought the whole thing over, and I couldn't make
      anything out of it at first, because it didn't seem likely that Trent or
      any of the other fellows in the dormitory had taken it; and then suddenly
      something Evans told me the day before yesterday made it all clear."
    </p>
<p>
      "What was that?"
    </p>
<p>
      "He said that the matron had just given him back his quid, which one of
      the housemaids had found on the floor by his bed. It had dropped out of
      his pocket that first night."
    </p>
<p>
      Scott eyed him fixedly. Pillingshot coyly evaded his gaze.
    </p>
<p>
      "That was it, was it?" said Scott.
    </p>
<p>
      Pillingshot nodded.
    </p>
<p>
      "It was a clue," he said. "I worked on it."
    </p>

</section></body></html>