<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Shields' and the Cricket Cup</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="shields-and-the-cricket-cup" epub:type="chapter">


<h2>
      Shields' and the Cricket Cup
    </h2>
<p>
      The house cricket cup at Wrykyn has found itself on some strange
      mantelpieces in its time. New talent has a way of cropping up in the house
      matches. Tail-end men hit up fifties, and bowlers who have never taken a
      wicket before except at the nets go on fifth change, and dismiss first
      eleven experts with deliveries that bounce twice and shoot. So that nobody
      is greatly surprised in the ordinary run of things if the cup does not go
      to the favourites, or even to the second or third favourites. But one
      likes to draw the line. And Wrykyn drew it at Shields'. And yet, as we
      shall proceed to show, Shields' once won the cup, and that, too, in a year
      when Donaldson's had four first eleven men and Dexter's three.
    </p>
<p>
      Shields' occupied a unique position at the School. It was an absolutely
      inconspicuous house. There were other houses that were slack or wild or
      both, but the worst of these did something. Shields' never did anything.
      It never seemed to want to do anything. This may have been due in some
      degree to Mr. Shields. As the housemaster is, so the house is. He was the
      most inconspicuous master on the staff. He taught a minute form in the
      junior school, where earnest infants wrestled with somebody's handy book
      of easy Latin sentences, and depraved infants threw cunningly compounded
      ink-balls at one another and the ceiling. After school he would range the
      countryside with a pickle-bottle in search of polly woggles and other big
      game, which he subsequently transferred to slides and examined through a
      microscope till an advanced hour of the night. The curious part of the
      matter was that his house was never riotous. Perhaps he was looked on as a
      non-combatant, one whom it would be unfair and unsporting to rag. At any
      rate, a weird calm reigned over the place; and this spirit seemed to
      permeate the public lives of the Shieldsites. They said nothing much and
      they did nothing much and they were very inoffensive. As a rule, one
      hardly knew they were there.
    </p>
<p>
      Into this abode of lotus-eaters came Clephane, a day boy, owing to the
      departure of his parents for India. Clephane wanted to go to Donaldson's.
      In fact, he said so. His expressions, indeed, when he found that the whole
      thing had been settled, and that he was to spend his last term at school
      at a house which had never turned out so much as a member of the Gym. Six,
      bordered on the unfilial. It appeared that his father had met Mr. Shields
      at dinner in the town—a fact to which he seemed to attach a mystic
      importance. Clephane's criticism of this attitude of mind was of such a
      nature as to lead his father to address him as Archibald instead of
      Archie.
    </p>
<p>
      However, the thing was done, and Clephane showed his good sense by
      realising this and turning his energetic mind to the discovery of the best
      way of making life at Shields' endurable. Fortune favoured him by sending
      to the house another day boy, one Mansfield. Clephane had not known him
      intimately before, though they were both members of the second eleven; but
      at Shields' they instantly formed an alliance. And in due season—or
      a little later—the house matches began. Henfrey, of Day's, the
      Wrykyn cricket captain, met Clephane at the nets when the drawing for
      opponents had been done.
    </p>
<p>
      "Just the man I wanted to see," said Henfrey. "I suppose you're captain of
      Shields' lot, Clephane? Well, you're going to scratch as usual, I
      suppose?"
    </p>
<p>
      For the last five seasons that lamentable house had failed to put a team
      into the field. "You'd better," said Henfrey, "we haven't overmuch time as
      it is. That match with Paget's team has thrown us out a lot. We ought to
      have started the house matches a week ago."
    </p>
<p>
      "Scratch!" said Clephane. "Don't you wish we would! My good chap, we're
      going to get the cup."
    </p>
<p>
      "You needn't be a funny ass," said Henfrey in his complaining voice, "we
      really are awfully pushed. As it is we shall have to settle the opening
      rounds on the first innings. That's to say, we can only give 'em a day
      each; if they don't finish, the winner of the first innings wins. You
      might as well scratch."
    </p>
<p>
      "I can't help your troubles. By rotten mismanagement you have got the
      house-matches crowded up into the last ten days of term, and you come and
      expect me to sell a fine side like Shields' to get you out of the
      consequences of your reckless act. My word, Henfrey, you've sunk pretty
      low. Nice young fellow Henfrey was at one time, but seems to have got
      among bad companions. Quite changed now. Avoid him as much as I can. Leave
      me, Henfrey, I would be alone."
    </p>
<p>
      "But you can't raise a team."
    </p>
<p>
      "Raise a team! Do you happen to know that half the house is <i>biting</i>
      itself with agony because we can't find room for all? Shields gives
      stump-cricket <i>soiries</i> in his study after prep. One every time you
      hit the ball, two into the bowl of goldfish, and out if you smash the
      microscope."
    </p>
<p>
      "Well," said Henfrey viciously, "if you want to go through the farce of
      playing one round and making idiots of yourselves, you'll have to wait a
      bit. You've got a bye in the first round."
    </p>
<p>
      Clephane told the news to Mansfield after tea. "I've been and let the
      house in for a rollicking time," he said, abstracting the copy of Latin
      verses which his friend was doing, and sitting on them to ensure undivided
      attention to his words. "Wanting to score off old Henfrey—I have few
      pleasures—I told him that Shields' was not going to scratch. So we
      are booked to play in the second round of the housers. We drew a bye for
      the first. It would be an awful rag if we could do something. We <i>must</i>
      raise a team of some sort. Henfrey would score so if we didn't. Who's
      there, d'you think, that can play?"
    </p>
<p>
      Mansfield considered the question thoughtfully. "They all <i>play</i>, I
      suppose," he said slowly, "if you can call it playing. What I mean to say
      is, cricket's compulsory here, so I suppose they've all had an innings or
      two at one time or another in the eightieth game or so. But if you want
      record-breakers, I shouldn't trust to Shields' too much."
    </p>
<p>
      "Not a bit. So long as we put a full team into the field, that's all I
      care about. I've often wondered what it's like to go in first and bowl
      unchanged the whole time."
    </p>
<p>
      "You'll do that all right," said Mansfield. "I should think Shields'
      bowling ran to slow grubs, to judge from the look of 'em. You'd better go
      and see Wilkins about raising the team. As head of the house, he probably
      considers himself captain of cricket."
    </p>
<p>
      Wilkins, however, took a far more modest view of his position. The notion
      of leading a happy band of cricketers from Shields' into the field had, it
      seemed, small attractions for him. But he went so far as to get a house
      list, and help choose a really representative team. And as details about
      historic teams are always welcome, we may say that the averages ranged
      from 3.005 to 8.14. This last was Wilkins' own and was, as he would have
      been the first to admit, substantially helped by a contribution of
      nineteen in a single innings in the fifth game.
    </p>
<p>
      So the team was selected, and Clephane turned out after school next day to
      give them a little fielding-practice. To his surprise the fielding was not
      so outrageous as might have been expected. All the simpler catches were
      held, and one or two of the harder as well. Given this form on the day of
      their appearance in public, and Henfrey might be disappointed when he came
      to watch and smile sarcastically. A batting fiasco is not one half so
      ridiculous as maniac fielding.
    </p>
<p>
      In the meantime the first round of the house matches had been played off,
      and it would be as well to describe at this point the positions of the
      rival houses and their prospects. In the first place, there were only four
      teams really in the running for the cup, Day's (headed by the redoubtable
      Henfrey), Spence's, who had Jackson, that season a head and shoulders
      above the other batsmen in the first eleven—he had just wound up the
      school season with an average of 51.3, Donaldson's, and Dexter's. All the
      other house teams were mainly tail.
    </p>
<p>
      Now, in the first round the powerful quartette had been diminished by the
      fact that Donaldson's had drawn Dexter's, and had lost to them by a couple
      of wickets.
    </p>
<p>
      For the second round Shields' drew Appleby's, a poor team. Space on the
      Wrykyn field being a consideration, with three house matches to be played
      off at the same time, Clephane's men fought their first battle on rugged
      ground in an obscure corner. As the captain of cricket ordered these
      matters, Henfrey had naturally selected the best bit of turf for Day's <i>v</i>.
      Dexter's. That section of the ground which was sacred to the school
      second-eleven matches was allotted to Spence's <i>v</i>. the School House.
      The idle public divided its attention between the two big games, and paid
      no attention to the death struggle in progress at the far end of the
      field. Whereby it missed a deal of quiet fun.
    </p>
<p>
      I say death struggle advisedly. Clephane had won his second-eleven cap as
      a fast bowler. He had failed to get into the first eleven because he was
      considered too erratic. Put these two facts together, and you will suspect
      that dark deeds were wrought on the men of Appleby in that lonely corner
      of the Wrykyn meadow.
    </p>
<p>
      The pitch was not a good one. As a sample of the groundman's art it was
      sketchy and amateurish; it lacked finish. Clephane won the toss, took a
      hasty glance at the corrugated turf, and decided to bat first. The wicket
      was hardly likely to improve with use.
    </p>
<p>
      He and Mansfield opened the batting. He stood three feet out of his
      ground, and smote. The first four balls he took full pitch. The last two,
      owing to a passion for variety on the part of the bowler, were long hops.
      At the end of the over Shields' score was twenty-four. Mansfield pursued
      the same tactics. When the first wicket fell, seventy was on the board. A
      spirit of martial enthusiasm pervaded the ranks of the house team. Mild
      youths with spectacles leaped out of their ground like tigers, and snicked
      fours through the slips. When the innings concluded, blood had been spilt—from
      an injured finger—but the total was a hundred and two.
    </p>
<p>
      Then Clephane walked across to the School shop for a vanilla ice. He said
      he could get more devil, as it were, into his bowling after a vanilla ice.
      He had a couple.
    </p>
<p>
      When he bowled his first ball it was easy to see that there was truth in
      the report of the causes of his inclusion in the second eleven and
      exclusion from the first. The batsman observed somewhat weakly, "Here, I
      <i>say!</i>" and backed towards square leg. The ball soared over the
      wicket-keep's head and went to the boundary. The bowler grinned
      pleasantly, and said he was just getting his arm in.
    </p>
<p>
      The second ball landed full-pitch on the batsman's right thigh. The third
      was another full pitch, this time on the top of the middle stump, which it
      smashed. With profound satisfaction the batsman hobbled to the trees, and
      sat down. "Let somebody else have a shot," he said kindly.
    </p>
<p>
      Appleby's made twenty-eight that innings.
    </p>
<p>
      Their defeat by an innings and fifty-three runs they attributed
      subsequently to the fact that only seven of the team could be induced to
      go to the wickets in the second venture.
    </p>
<p>
      "So you've managed to win a match," grunted Henfrey, "I should like to
      have been there."
    </p>
<p>
      "You might just as well have been," said Clephane, "from what they tell
      me."
    </p>
<p>
      At which Henfrey became abusive, for he had achieved an "egg" that
      afternoon, and missed a catch; which things soured him, though Day's had
      polished off Dexter's handsomely.
    </p>
<p>
      "Well," he said at length, "you're in the semi-final now, of all weird
      places. You'd better play Spence's next. When can you play?"
    </p>
<p>
      "Henfrey," said Clephane, "I have a bright, open, boyish countenance, but
      I was not born yesterday. You want to get a dangerous rival out of the way
      without trouble, so you set Shields' to smash up Spence's. No, Henfrey. I
      do not intend to be your catspaw. We will draw lots who is to play which.
      Here comes Jackson. We'll toss odd man out."
    </p>
<p>
      And when the coins fell there were two tails and one head; and the head
      belonged to the coin of Clephane.
    </p>
<p>
      "So, you see," he said to Henfrey, "Shields' is in the final. No wonder
      you wanted us to scratch."
    </p>
<p>
      I should like this story to end with a vivid description of a tight
      finish. Considering that Day's beat Spence's, and consequently met
      Shields' in the final, that would certainly be the most artistic ending.
      Henfrey batting—Clephane bowling—one to tie, two to win, one
      wicket to fall. Up goes the ball! Will the lad catch it!! He fumbles it.
      It falls. All is over. But look! With a supreme effort—and so on.
    </p>
<p>
      The real conclusion was a little sensational in its way, but not nearly so
      exciting as that.
    </p>
<p>
      The match between Day's and Shields' opened in a conventional enough
      manner. Day's batted first, and made two hundred and fifty. Henfrey
      carried his bat for seventy-six, and there were some thirties. For
      Shields' Clephane and Mansfield made their usual first-wicket stand, and
      the rest brought the total up to ninety-eight. At this point Henfrey
      introduced a variation on custom. The match was a three days' match. In
      fact, owing to the speed with which the other games had been played, it
      could, if necessary, last four days. The follow-on was, therefore, a
      matter for the discretion of the side which led. Henfrey and his team saw
      no reason why they should not have another pleasant spell of batting
      before dismissing their opponents for the second time and acquiring the
      cup. So in they went again, and made another two hundred and fifty odd,
      Shields' being left with four hundred and twelve to make to win.
    </p>
<p>
      On the morning after Day's second innings, a fag from Day's brought
      Clephane a message from Henfrey. Henfrey was apparently in bed. He would
      be glad if Clephane would go and see him in the dinner-hour. The interview
      lasted fifteen minutes. Then Clephane burst out of the house, and dashed
      across to Shields' in search of Mansfield.
    </p>
<p>
      "I say, <i>have</i> you heard?" he shouted.
    </p>
<p>
      "What's up?"
    </p>
<p>
      "Why, every man in Day's team, bar two kids, is in bed. Ill. Do you mean
      to say you haven't heard? They thought they'd got that house cup safe, so
      all the team except the two kids, fags, you know, had a feed in honour of
      it in Henfrey's study. Some ass went and bought a bad rabbit pie, and now
      they're laid up. Not badly, but they won't be out for a day or two."
    </p>
<p>
      "But what about the match?"
    </p>
<p>
      "Oh, that'll go on. I made a point of that. They can play subs."
    </p>
<p>
      Mansfield looked thoughtful.
    </p>
<p>
      "But I say," he said, "it isn't very sporting, is it? Oughtn't we to wait
      or something?"
    </p>
<p>
      "Sporting! My dear chap, a case like this mustn't be judged by ordinary
      standards. We can't spoil the giant rag of the century because it isn't
      quite sporting. Think what it means—Shields' getting the cup! It'll
      keep the school laughing for terms. What do you want to spoil people's
      pleasure for?"
    </p>
<p>
      "Oh, all right," said Mansfield.
    </p>
<p>
      "Besides, think of the moral effect it'll have on the house. It may turn
      it into the blood house of Wrykyn. Shields himself may get quite sportive.
      We mustn't miss the chance."
    </p>
<p>
      The news having got about the school, Clephane and Mansfield opened their
      second innings to the somewhat embarrassed trundling of Masters Royce and
      Tibbit, of the Junior School, before a substantial and appreciative
      audience.
    </p>
<p>
      Both played carefully at first, but soon getting the measure of the
      bowling (which was not deep) began to hit out, and runs came quickly. At
      fifty, Tibbit, understudying Henfrey as captain of the side, summoned to
      his young friend Todby from short leg, and instructed him to "have a go"
      at the top end.
    </p>
<p>
      It was here that Clephane courteously interfered. Substitutes, he pointed
      out, were allowed, by the laws of cricket, only to field, not to bowl. He
      must, therefore, request friend Todby to return to his former sphere of
      utility, where, he added politely, he was a perfect demon.
    </p>
<p>
      "But, blow it," said Master Tibbit, who (alas!) was addicted to the use of
      strong language, "Royce and I can't bowl the whole blessed time."
    </p>
<p>
      "You'll have to, I'm afraid," said Clephane with the kindly air of a
      doctor soothing a refractory patient. "Of course, you can take a spell at
      grubs whenever you like."
    </p>
<p>
      "Oh, darn!" said Master Tibbit.
    </p>
<p>
      Shortly afterwards Clephane made his century.
    </p>
<hr/>
<p>
      The match ended late on the following afternoon in a victory for Shields'
      by nine wickets, and the scene at the School Shop when Royce and Tibbit
      arrived to drown their sorrows and moisten their dry throats with ginger
      beer is said by eyewitnesses to have been something quite out of the
      common run.
    </p>
<p>
      The score sheet of the match is also a little unusual. Clephane's three
      hundred and one (not out) is described in the <i>Wrykinian</i> as a
      "masterly exhibition of sound yet aggressive batting." How Henfrey
      described it we have never heard.
    </p>
<p>
<br/><br/>
</p>
<hr/>
<p>
<a id="link2H_4_0004" name="link2H_4_0004"> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
</section></body></html>